Esc secret store csi driver (#13740)
pulumi/docs: content/tutorials/esc-secret-store-csi-driver/index.md

---

> title: "Integrate with Secret Store CSI Driver"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Integrate Pulumi with Secret Store CSI Driver in Kubernetes"
```

> title_tag: "Integrate with Secret Store CSI Driver | Learn Pulumi"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title_tag: "Integrate Pulumi with Secret Store CSI Driver in Kubernetes"
```

> h1: "Integrate with Secret Store CSI Driver"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
h1: "Integrate Pulumi with Secret Store CSI Driver in Kubernetes"
```

layout: single
description: |
    Learn how to integrate the Secret Store CSI Driver with Pulumi ESC to securely manage your secrets in Kubernetes.
meta_desc: "Learn how to integrate the Secret Store CSI Driver with Pulumi ESC to securely manage your secrets in Kubernetes."
weight: 999
meta_image: meta.png
summary: |
  ## Combining CSI, Kubernetes and Secrets = Secret Store CSI Driver

>   The Secret Store CSI Driver is a CSI driver that allows you to mount many secrets, certificates, and keys from external secret stores into Kubernetes pods as volumes. After attaching the volume, the system mounts the secrets into the container file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Kubernetes Secret Store CSI Driver allows you to mount secrets, certificates, and keys from external secret stores into Kubernetes pods as volumes. After attaching the volume, the system mounts the secrets into the container file system.
```

Reviewer: I'd suggest you explain CSI once before referring it as an acronym: i.e.  The Kubernetes Container Storage Interface (CSI) ... then

  The benefits of using the Secret Store CSI Driver are that you manage the lifecycle of the secrets outside of Kubernetes while still providing a Kubernetes-native experience of using the secrets in your pods.    

youll_learn:
  - How to deploy the Secret Store CSI Driver and Pulumi ESC Provider using Helm or Pulumi

>   - How to mount secretes stored in Pulumi ESC as volumes in your Kubernetes pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - How to mount secrets stored in Pulumi ESC as volumes in your Kubernetes pods
```

collections:
- pulumi-esc
- kubernetes
collections_weight: 2
prereqs:
- "The [Pulumi ESC CLI](/docs/esc-cli/)"
- "A Kubernetes cluster (for example, [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/))"
- "[kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/releases/download/#kubectl)"
- "[helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)"
---

## Deploy Secret Store CSI Driver

### Deploy using Helm

First, you need to deploy the Secret Store CSI Driver before you can install the Pulumi ESC provider.

```bash
helm repo add secrets-store-csi-driver https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/secrets-store-csi-driver/charts
helm repo update
helm upgrade -i csi-secrets-store secrets-store-csi-driver/secrets-store-csi-driver --namespace kube-system
```

Running the above `helm upgrade -i` command will install the Secret Store CSI Driver on Linux nodes in the `kube-system` namespace.

To validate the installer is running as expected, run the following commands:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n kube-system
```

You should see the `csi-secrets-store` pod running.

```bash
NAME                                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
csi-secrets-store-secrets-store-csi-driver-drv44   3/3     Running   0          54s
```

> Additionally, you should see following CRDs installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you should see the following CRDs installed:
```

```bash
kubectl get crds | grep secrets-store
secretproviderclasses.secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io            2025-01-02T14:03:58Z
secretproviderclasspodstatuses.secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io   2025-01-02T14:03:58Z
```

Now that the Secret Store CSI Driver is running, you can deploy the Pulumi ESC Provider.

```bash
helm upgrade -i pulumi-esc-csi-provider oci://ghcr.io/pulumi/helm-charts/pulumi-esc-csi-provider --namespace kube-system
```

After a few seconds, the `pulumi-esc-csi-provider` should be running.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app=pulumi-esc-csi-provider
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pulumi-esc-csi-provider-l8w5f   1/1     Running   0          76s
```

> Now with everything running, we can start using the Pulumi ESC provider for getting our secrets from Pulumi ESC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now with everything running, we can start using the Pulumi ESC provider to retrieve our secrets from Pulumi ESC.
```

```

Either way, you should see following environment configuration in the Pulumi Cloud Console:

![img_5.png](img_5.png)

Now we can update our deployment to use the `example-provider-pulumi-esc` provider.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: example-provider-pulumi-esc
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: example-provider-pulumi-esc
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-provider-pulumi-esc
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: example-provider-pulumi-esc
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: client
        image: busybox:latest
        command: ["sh", "-c"]
        args:
        - |
          set -eux
          ls /run/secrets
          find /run/secrets/ -mindepth 1 -maxdepth 1 -not -name '.*' | xargs -t -I {} sh -c 'echo "$(cat "{}")"'
          tail -f /dev/null
        volumeMounts:
        - name: data
          mountPath: /run/secrets
      volumes:
      - name: data
        csi:
          driver: secrets-store.csi.k8s.io
          readOnly: true
          volumeAttributes:
            secretProviderClass: "example-provider-pulumi-esc"
```

> Important part of the deployment is the `secretProviderClass: "example-provider-pulumi-esc"` attribute in the `volumeAttributes` section. This tells the Secret Store CSI Driver to use the `example-provider-pulumi-esc` provider to retrieve the secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important part of the deployment is the `secretProviderClass: "example-provider-pulumi-esc"` attribute in the `volumeAttributes` section. This tells the Secret Store CSI Driver to use the `example-provider-pulumi-esc` provider to retrieve the secrets.
```

> On pod start or restart, the Secret Store CSI Driver will commmunicate with the Pulumi ESC provider to retrieve the secrets content from Pulumi ESC as defined in the `SecretProviderClass` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On pod start or restart, the Secret Store CSI Driver will communicate with the Pulumi ESC provider to retrieve the secrets content from Pulumi ESC as defined in the `SecretProviderClass` object.
```

      fn::secret: <your-pulumi-pat>
```

{{< chooser language "typescript,javascript,python,go,csharp" />}}

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="typescript" from="1" to="47" >}}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language javascript %}}

```javascript
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="javascript" from="1" to="48" >}}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="python" from="1" to="47" >}}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="go" from="1" to="60" >}}
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="go" from="153" to="200" >}}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="csharp" from="1" to="60" >}}
{{< example-program-snippet path="kubernetes-csi-driver" language="csharp" from="166" to="300" >}}
```

{{% /choosable %}}

Deploy the stack by running:

```bash
pulumi up
```

> And you should see that the secret was created in the Kubernetes cluster and the ESO instance was deployed successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see that the secret was created in the Kubernetes cluster and the ESO instance was deployed successfully.
```

+ tail -f /dev/null
```

Or you can exec into the pod and check the content of the mounted secret:

```bash
kubectl exec -it $NAME -- cat /run/secrets/hello
```

You should see the following output:

```bash
world
```

#### Cleanup

To uninstall the `pulumi-esc-csi-provider` deployment:

```bash
pulumi destroy
```

## Next Steps

In this tutorial, you learned how to integrate the Secret Store CSI Driver with Pulumi ESC to securely manage your secrets in Kubernetes. To learn more about Pulumi ESC, check out the [Pulumi ESC documentation](/docs/esc/).

As we continue to improve the Pulumi ESC provider, we would love to hear your feedback. Please reach out to us on [Slack](https://pulumi-community.slack.com/) or [GitHub](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-esc-csi-provider) with any questions or suggestions.

To dive deeper into using Pulumi ESC for advanced scenarios, check out the following resources:

- **Pulumi ESC and External Secrets Operator**: Learn how to use the External Secrets Operator to manage secrets in Pulumi ESC and synchronize them with your Kubernetes cluster. Check out the [Pulumi ESC and External Secrets Operator tutorial](/tutorials/esc-external-secret-operator/).

> - **Environment Composition**: Learn more about to effectively compose multiple environments to manage configurations across your infrastructure. Explore the [Pulumi documentation on environment imports](/docs/esc/environments/imports/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Environment Composition**: Learn more about how to effectively compose multiple environments to manage configurations across your infrastructure. Explore the [Pulumi documentation on environment imports](/docs/esc/environments/imports/).
```
